README.md, before:

# SuperMemo-Git-sync
A bat script to automatically sync your SuperMemo collection (across multiple devices)

**NB:** This script assumes you're using git to backup your SuperMemo collection, as outlined in https://supermemo.wiki/sma/#/qs-backup-setup?id=internet-backups-git-amp-github

Upon launching, this script will:
1. Get the latest copy of your SM collection from git
2. Prompt to Launch SM
3. Once SM is closed, it will prompt to save your collection to git

# Setup
1. Download the .bat script
2. Place the script in your git folder together with your SM collection
3. Right click on the .bat script and click Send to > Desktop
4. On your desktop, Right click on the newly created shortcut and click Properties
5. In the Target field, append the drive letter, where SM is currently installed. Make sure there's a space in-between the existing string and the newly added drive letter
5.1 E.g. for me, SM is installed on drive **E** 
5.2 So, I would change the value in the Target field: `"D:\SuperMemo_Collection\Start & sync SM.bat"` to `"D:\SuperMemo_Collection\Start & sync SM.bat" E`
6. Press OK on the Properties window
7. Optional: if you were using a shortcut to run SM, you can delete it

# How to use
- Use this script instead of the normal SuperMemo shortcut - it will ensure you have the latest copy of your collection before you start working on it and will update the latest copy when you're finished.
- This is especially true for multiple computers: if you setup this script on multiple PCs then you don't need to worry about having the latest copy of your collection. As long as you only run this script (and not SM directly) then you can always pick up where you left off at any of your workstations

# Notes
- This script is nothing too complicated - you can see that it's a few git commands to sync the collection, mixed in with a few readable prompts. I've used it myself for ~1.5 months+ as of the writing of this readme file. Still, I can't hold any responsibility if something goes horribly wrong - use at your own risk and all that.
- The script supports installation of SM on different drives, but non-default installation paths are not supported at the moment. E.g. SM must be installed at `X:\SuperMemo\` 
- Any questions - let me know, and I'll try to do a better write up/explain

Commit message:

Write up on all functions and more granular control with the script

README.md, after:

# SuperMemo-Git-sync
A bat script to automatically sync your SuperMemo collection (across multiple devices)

**NB:** This script assumes you're using git to backup your SuperMemo collection, as outlined in https://supermemo.wiki/sma/#/qs-backup-setup?id=internet-backups-git-amp-github

Upon launching, this script will:
1. Get the latest copy of your SM collection from git
2. Prompt to Launch SM
3. Once SM is closed, it will prompt to save your collection to git

# Setup
1. Download the .bat script
2. Place the script in your git folder together with your SM collection
3. Right click on the .bat script and click Send to > Desktop
4. On your desktop, Right click on the newly created shortcut and click Properties
5. In the Target field, append the drive letter, where SM is currently installed. Make sure there's a space in-between the existing string and the newly added drive letter
5.1 E.g. for me, SM is installed on drive **E** 
5.2 So, I would change the value in the Target field: `"D:\SuperMemo_Collection\Start & sync SM.bat"` to `"D:\SuperMemo_Collection\Start & sync SM.bat" E`
6. Press OK on the Properties window
7. Optional: if you were using a shortcut to run SM, you can delete it

# How to use
- Use this script instead of the normal SuperMemo shortcut - it will ensure you have the latest copy of your collection before you start working on it and will update the latest copy when you're finished
- This is especially true for multiple devices: if you setup this script on multiple PCs then you don't need to worry about having the latest copy of your collection. As long as you only run this script (and not SM directly) then you can always pick up where you left off at any of your workstations
- **Do not** use this script to work on multiple devices **in parallel**: not only is this unefficient (as you'll see the same elements on every device, duplicating your efforts) but this will also create conflicting commits in git: eventually, when you'll try to sync your work between your devices, you'll get conflicts in git which would need to be resolved
	- Always work on one device at a time. When you wish to transfer to a new device, close SuperMemo on the original machine. Then, launch this script on your new device - you should see git notifications that it's updating some files
	- If you accidentally launch SuperMemo, modified files may prevent git from syncing your latest changes from other devices. To resolve this, you can use 'git stash' (as described in the next section)

# Functions
## Doing a 'git stash' before launching SuperMemo
The script will prompt you to type `cl` as you launch it. If you type in these characters and press _Enter_, the script will clear any modified files in the git repo, before launching SuperMemo.

This will probably be useful if you're using your collection on 2+ devices - e.g. if you've launched this script on machine A (and synced your changes), and at the same time **accidentally** launched SuperMemo on machine B. This will modify SuperMemo files on both machines in a different way, meaning that if you afterwards try to run the script on Machine B, you will get conflicts.

Typing `cl` will clean the dirty files and sync the latest version of the knowledge collection.

### Getting your changes back
If you've accidentally did a `cl` where you didn't intend to, you can get your changes back by opening _git bash_ in your knowledge folder and typing `git stash pop`. Previous versions are recoverable too, see: https://git-scm.com/docs/git-stash

## Controlling what is synced by this script
Every time you close SuperMemo, `gitAddFiles` function is called, which will sync the collection with git. Out of the box, it does `git add -A *`: `*` stands for all files in the folder, meaning, every time you close SuperMemo the whole folder will be saved. This will work for the majority of people.

This can be changes, if desired. E.g. if you store additonal information in the same git repo, but only choose to save SuperMemo related files when your close SuperMemo. To do so, see https://git-scm.com/docs/git-add


# Notes
- This script is nothing too complicated - you can see that it's a few git commands to sync the collection, mixed in with a few readable prompts. I've used it myself for ~1.5 months+ as of the writing of this readme file. Still, I can't hold any responsibility if something goes horribly wrong - use at your own risk and all that
- The script supports installation of SM on different drives, but non-default installation paths are not supported at the moment. E.g. SM must be installed at `X:\SuperMemo\`
- In the event where no Internet connection is present, there is still a benefit of using this script compared to launching standalone SuperMemo: this script will create commits every time you close SuperMemo (but won't be able to push them online). This is better because it allows you to work with more granular changes, should you wish to revert them
- Any questions - let me know, and I'll try to do a better write up/explain
